---
layout: post
title:  "2015 Summary"
published: true

---

2015 was life-changing. Heck, 2015 **is** life-changing – and it will be life-changing for ~16 hours more. I cannot predict the future, but I somehow remember the past (*somehow.. ugh..*). So, what's been happening in 2015?

## :q

In April, I made a huge **:q** (sry) – I quit my job due to a mix of mental and physical problems and took a break.

Few days later, when my head could work again, I noticed *something* on the edge of my consciousness – and when I caught it, an incredible existential experience happened to me.

– I've quit my job and I'm not going to look for another one this month. So, I can do whatever I want? Really? I've got my sock now! I'm a free elf!

Yeah, no work, no need to wake up early, no need to write reports or go outside... Freedom it is. However, my next thought was:

— I have all time in the world and I **must** spend it.

Again, this was a really existential thought, or feeling, or insight. And this is how I've been feeling since that day – I have my whole life and zero ideas how to deal with it.


## :s

Having roughly two times more time than before (24 vs. 12-14), I decided that I should do some stuff I've always wanted to do. At that moment it was creating a website for adsense.

And I followed my desicion. I worked, and I learned new things, and I ironed every piece of cloth in my home.

**I just had to do something – or anything. I had a lot of time.** It's usually hard to realise and understand that free time is, in fact, a burden. When I had full-time work, there were 6-8 hours of free time in the evening, and I valued them high, *my precious free timeses*.

But when my **todo-when-retired**-list was completed (which happened really quickly), I have entered an perpetual waiting room, and my life changed.


## :x

The most surprising change was the zen-*ish* philosophy, or mindset, or attitude replacing all of the familiar and cozy mental shit.

— Well, since I am *waiting* here, I'd better occupy myself with some stuff.

**With what stuff?! Must decide what stuff! And think well before make decisions! No uncertainties!** The old me was not happy about changes, but, piece by piece, it was removed by that zen-*ish*, slightly indifferent attitude.

— I can either be busy or be idle — it doesn't matter. In fact, nothing does.

However, it seemed to me that being idle, doing *nothing* would be a torture with awful consequences. And I became busy: with the website, the housework, whatever. 100% busy, yeah!

## :o

There was, however, a certain issue with my occupations: **I had no idea what I wanted to do**. And though I'm sure that nobody does, in my particular case resolving this issue was crucial: without direction, my activity felt useless and pathetic. I could have been working at my previous place, and nothing would've changed.

On June 1th (or 3rd), I decided that I wanted to do web-design, and started learning HTML, CSS, JavaScript (*uhh whats javascript how do you.. ohh*), and a couple of JS frameworks. 

I'd been having fun until some annoying `div`s refused to obey my orders and were sent to hell for that (along with JavaScript). I didn't even try – mostly because I didn't want to let this front-end crap into my life.


Little by little, my interests were moving towards the "True IT" area which I always admired of. Getting (and quickly leaving) a shitty seo job resulted in my firm and definitive desicion **to never work in seo, or web marketing, or ecommerce-web-development** and avoid it by all means. Because in our country most part of *web-marketing* is bullshit and/or posting pictures to the company's social page.


## :a

Yesterday, I suddenly decided to apply for some jobs. And while doing it, I realised that for the first time, I was confident in my skills and abilities **and** loved the career path I'd chosen.


I've been studying hard as fuck since the end of September. And it's never enough for me: do some more analysis, make prettier histograms, go to Github and laugh at `readme`s written by guys from India...

And in 2016, even more cool things will happen.

